Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
JDk contains the JRE , compiler and debugger
JRE: java runtime environment : is a software designed to run programs
compiler : software that translate the program langage into the machine langage(set of 01)so it can be understood by the machine(the processor)
debugger: program that is used to test and debug other programs written by the developer.


What is IDE?
A.
Integrated development environment is a software that let you write and test code

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse , intellij

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Java code is written using an ide than it is compiled using a compiler(javac) After that
   it will turn into a class and then to the jvm (java virtual machine) and finaly executed by the operating
   System

what is class?
A. Class is a template that contains future object's information and methods . We use the class
   to create the object of the class.

What is object?
A. Object is an instantiation of a class the object use the class informations and execute the methods

What is the entry point of an application?
A. It's the main method

Why main is static?
A. Because we don't need to instantiate an instance of the class main in order to execute.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. classpath is used by the java compiler to find classes's path
   path is used by the operating system to find the executable

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Abstract class is invoked using extend , we have to declare a body in methods , a class can extend only one abstract class
   Interface class is invoked using implements , we can't declare a body in methods , a class can implements multiple interfaces

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, we can't .Instead we use a concrete class that extends or implement the abstract or the interface and
   implements their methods after that we create an object to this class and use the methods.

what is Access Specifier?
A. There are 3 access specifier : public , protected and private
   using the access specifier it will either gives us the access directly to the fields , methods etc (public)
   or not (private).

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Program : is a program used to manipulate objects
   features:
   -Encapsulation : used to hide data
   -Inheretance : used when a class need to inheretate from another class so it will take the properties and behavior of the parent class
   -Abstraction: hiding implementation , having declared methods and used by another class that extend to it and uses its methods
   -Polymorphism: (overriding ) take a method from the class parent and rewrite it
                  (overloading) declare two methods with the same name in the same class but with different parameters

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package is like a folder it is used to organise set of classes
   java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application program interface : BufferedReader, FileReader, Scanner, String

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No , to avoid confusing

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Declare two methods with the same name in the same class but with different parameters
   happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. I'is an event that happens during the execution when something goes wrong
   we can handle it usign try and catch and handle it in catch section.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
A. Static keyword is used to share variables or methods of a class
   variable : static variables are associated with the class not the obeject
   methods: belongs to the class and not to the object
   we don't have to create an object of the class to use the static variables and methods
   we can use the class name to call them.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final class: can't be inherited
   final variables : can't change its value
   final method: can't be overriden

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.
final : used to apply restriction of a class , variables and methods
finally : is used when we want to execute a code no matter what . even if there is an exception it will be executed
finalize: is a method used to do the clean up before the garbage collection

What is a constructor ?
A.
It's a method that has the same name as the class and used to initialise an object of the class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.
Yes, we can.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.
Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java?
A.
it reference to the curent object of the class

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.
Super is a keyword used when a class inheritate from another and want to call the parent's method and properties

What is JVM stand for?
A.
Java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A.
Yes

What version of java are you using?
A.
1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
A.
java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.
JDK provides all the tools : executables , compiler , debugger
JVM is the heart of java programing jvm converte byte code to the machine specific code

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.
JRE contains JVM
JRE is used to run programs and jvm is a part of it, it converte the byte code to the machine code

What is compile time and run time?
A.
compile time is the time in which program is compiled
run time is the time in which the program is executed

What is heap?
A.
is a runtime data area in which class data are located

How java manage it's memory?
A.
The jvm uses the heap and may increase or decrease the heap's size

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.
String object can't be changed
StringBuffer can change the value of the object
StringBuilder manipulate data by adding and deleting characters and strings

What is Singleton class?
A.
It's a class that accepts only one instantiation

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.
Serialization is creation data bytes from an object
Deserialization is creation of objects from data bytes

when to use transient variable in java?
A.
To tell the jvm that the variable is not part of the persistent state of the object

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.
while needs to verify first the condition and then if it's true it will do certains instructions
do while do the instructions and then verify the condition.

What is Enum?
A.
is a keyword used when we want to define a collection of constants

What is Iterator?
A.
It's a class used to read data.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.
int is the same as Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.
The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.
Calling a constructor from another constructor

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.
Serial for single_threded environment
Parallel for multiple_threded environment

What is JIT stands for?
A.
Just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.
Heap is a location that contains java objects it is created when the jvm starts.
Garbage collection is an operation that lookes into the heap and define which objects are not in used and it deletes them

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.
No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.
-stack is used for static memory and heap for dynamic memory
-variables stored in the stack are located directly in the ram and they are accessed fast
-variables stored in the heap have their memory in the runtime so the access is slower

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.
Reflection means a code can inspect other codes in the same system.
it is usefull because it gives us information about the class in which the object belongs.

what is multithreading in java?
A.
Java feature that allows concurrent execution
of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.
In multi_threded, programs can access a ressource at the same time and if one of them change it value
the other one won't be able to use the new value. So, to avoid that only one program must access the ressource at the same time
for that we use synchronisation.

What is Framework?
A.
Framework contains many classes of prewritten code and we can add our code to it so it can use it

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.
Junit , Rest Assured , selenium , TestNG , Mockito , Spock framework ,Cucumber, Spring test , DBunit , Robot framework

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.
TestNg is inspired by JUnit but introducing new features that makes it more powerfull.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.
The class Abstract_employees depends on Employee interface.
The class EmployeeInfo depends on the Abstract_employee.

what is dependency injection in java?
A.
is Inversion of control . a class should not configure its dependencies statically but should be configured from the outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.
The binding which can be resolved at compile time by compiler is known as static or early binding.
Dynamic binding compiler doesn’t decide the method to be called.






